# Epsilon and Delta
### Course project for **CSE230 - Principles of Programming Languages**

<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Overview </span>
Our project, Delta, is a debugger for a simplified programming language, Epsilon. Epsilon is a high level, dynamically typed, imperative programming language with support for first class functions and closures.

<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Architecture / Main Components </span>
The project involves several components -
- A Parser for Epsilon. This is built using Parsec, and will convert text files into code for the interpreter to run.  
- An Interpreter/Evaluator that walks through the AST generated by the Parser to evaluate statements/expressions in the source code. We currently have two possible designs for this.
- The command line debugger Delta, which provides a command line interface that allows the user to set breakpoints in the source code and uses the interpreter to step through the code until a breakpoint is hit. 

<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Challenges Faced </span>
-  Figuring out how to pause in the middle of evaluation, to allow for breaking in the middle of our interpreter’s evaluation loop. After some research, we have settled on using a coroutine monad for now. 
- Getting a pointer substitute functional, to allow us to refer to AST nodes, and hopefully closure environments
- Figuring out Brick; Maintaining/Updating state, traversable/intuitive UI

<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Goal Expectations </span>
We currently expect to be able to meet our goals by the deadline. If we aren’t, the most likely change we will make would be simplifying closures, probably by restricting functions to have no side effects. (In the worst case we might have to use functions instead of closures, but that seems unlikely at the moment.)

<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> User Guide </span>
The user will have the following options:
- Debug line by line on encountering the breakpoint
- Evaluate the current breakpoint and proceed to the next breakpoint

<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Tentative "Final" Product </span>
The result of our project will be an interpreter for Epsilon which allows the user to break the interpreter at selected points in the program, at which point they will be able to view the current state and stack trace, step forward in the program’s execution either one step at a time or run until the next breakpoint. To do this, we will need to use the brick library, as well as some parser library --- we’re uncertain whether Parsec or the combination of Alex and Happy would be better right now.

<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Possible Extensions </span>
* Triggers on a variable's value change.
\* This may be further extended to be a time-travelling debugger, essentially somehow going “X” number of steps back into the execution of the program.
* Extending the language to add more features derived from other modern languages.

## <span style="color:blue"> Running the Delta Debugger </span>
- Clone the repository to your local machine  
- If not present, install stack [link](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/README/)
- Create and save your program 
- Go to command line prompt and run the below command:  
    > stack run path_to_your_program src/dist/Commands.md
<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Link to Final Presentation </span>
[Link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GaS5k0vl4lbLw_hIbnbtbiWLZuSJG-iMQUWn43BOwI8/edit?usp=sharing)
<br>

## <span style="color:blue"> Team </span>
> Daniel Kleber,
> Abhishek C. Sharma,
> Hema Thota,
> Utkarsh Vashishtha
